---
title: Trip 2014 No6 - Break-in in Belgrade
slug: break-in-in-belgrade
date: 2014-07-25
---

This time I've chosen the fancy way of travelling and took the plane from
[Bucharest](/posts/big-bold-bucharest) to Belgrade. This took me
only 1.5 hours, and with the time difference it was even only 30 minutes.

Totally randomly I bumped into Laurie, the Canadian girl I met in Bucharest
couple of days ago. She was on the same plane, just at the other end of it.
After a quick chat at the airport in Belgrade she continued to Berlin.

I took the bus from the airport to the train station. Luckily for me the hostel
was just around the corner of the station. No searching in a foreign city while
32°C outside.

Since I got up really early in Bucharest this morning I wasn't really keen to
walk around too much.

I visited the shopping mile, which was also near the hostel, got a snack and
looked around. The first impression wasn't the best. But the reason for that was
rather my tiredness.

In the evening I hang around in the hostel lounge, drank some rakija and chatted
with the hostel staff. As most people were out for the Exit festival, there
weren't much other people around.

I did go out with a couple of English guys and a local girl. We went to a party
on a boat. It's quite interesting, there is a [party
area](https://www.google.de/maps/@44.8246625,20.4942638,15z) in Belgrade where
at least 8 party boats floating on the Danube river.

The music was good, and for a Thursday it was pretty crowded. But that's what I
heard about Belgrade. The music became shitty and people left, but I am glad I
stayed because the music changed from boring to Drum and Bass. And as you
probably know by now, that's my music!

After dancing to quite a few classics, I was back at the hostel around six.
After being awake for 22 hours, crossing one border, I felt happily in my bed.

Next day I got up at one in the afternoon. It was pretty hot again, so I decided
to go swim. I was told there was a beach on the river, like 30 minutes away from
the hostel. So I went there. Kind of.

I took the wrong side of the river to walk to the beach. For a while everything
was fine, but eventually the sidewalk ended. Instead of going back to the last
bridge I decided to take the chance and walk by the riverside.

![](/travel-pictures/Serbia/Belgrade/100_1279.JPG)

That worked out for quite a while, but finally I couldn't go any further. So I
had to go up a little hill. Eventually I was standing in some kind of lot with
all kinds of old cars and machines, one of them in the picture above.

After taking a picture, a old guy came from behind and started yelling at me.
Serbian, of course. With my hand and feet I tried to tell him that I has chosen
the wrong side of the river and that I actually wanted to go swimming. Also I
smiled the whole time, since this was a hilarious situation.

He escorted me to the gate, even offering my a cigarette. At the gate there was
another guy and two big ass dogs. I am thankful that I haven't met the dogs
first. So he said something to the other guy, and he was started laughing.

He opened the gate and showed me the way to the next bridge. I shook both guys
hands and waved a goodbye. Too fucking funny!

So remember, if you unintentionally break into someones property, smile! Or run,
if dogs are coming at you.

After this story it got cloudy and I went back to the hostel.

In the evening I was watching the worldcup final with Paola and Fernando, both
from Chile, and Daniel, also from Germany. We had a nice and fun conversation
while the game was on. At the end, as you might know, Germany won. But as I
don't care for football, or nations for that matter, I wasn't too excited. And I
celebrate everyday anyway!

At night we went to the same boat as the day before. And luckily, it was Drum
and Bass night! So I had fun, of course, and I think the other guys as well. I
also met some local people and found out that they were really friendly. It's
really easy to start conversations with them. In Bucharest I found it harder.

The next day I went out and shoot the [next part](/posts/hostel-hop-pitch-scraps-3)
for my Hostel Hop pitch
video. After that I walked along the river up to the north, and took a little
nap in a park. Walked a bit around in the city, did the sightseeing I missed on
the first days.

In the evening I chatted with Dominique, a girl from Canada. I also worked for a
bit and went kinda early to bed. The first two days of partying were already
enough.

The next day I got up pretty refreshed, ready to travel to Budapest.

I went down to the Hostel lounge to pay for my stay and say goodbye. But the
guys told me that I didn't have to pay anything. Huh? Turned out that
[HostelWorld](http://www.hostelworld.com/)
[paid](https://twitter.com/mustardamus/status/489089223149228032) for my stay!
Again, kudos to them! That is great marketing.

One last stop before my train was leaving in the evening was the Nikola Tesla
museum. There I was part of a demonstration of wireless energy via the [Tesla coil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tesla_Coil).
I was standing next to the
machine holding a light bulb. When the machine was turned on, the light bulb
magically began to glow. In my opinion, pretty amazing. And I swear, after
leaving the museum, I felt electrified! But maybe it was just my excitement.

The plane from Bucharest to Belgrade was 138€. Thanks to HostelWorld, hostel
cost were 0€. And I've spent about 70€ for food, drinks and party.

**Costs: 208€**
