---
title: Trip 2014 No4 - Back in Sofia
slug: back-in-sofia
date: 2014-07-05
---

I left [Budapest](/posts/a-taste-of-budapest) in the evening via the
overnight bus to Sofia. Twelve hours of comfort ahead. Equipped with some hours
of laptop battery and more hours of audiobooks that should be no problem.

After doing my work for two hours I met this great girl from Bulgaria, Kameliya.
She is a photographer for movies and had a gig in Budapest.

What followed was a nice five hours conversation about everything, from
traveling, over friendships, passions, hobbies, languages, to life and and
finding your own.

Thanks Kameliya for making the bus ride effectively just seven hours!

After some hours of pseudo-sleep I arrived early in Sofia. Shared a cab with my
new friend, I got dropped off right in front of [Hostel Mostel](http://www.hostels.com/hostels/sofia/hostel-mostel/3725).
Perfect, because I was dead again.

Hostel Mostel has a very good lounge, so I crashed there waiting for my girl
Nele and for the room to be ready.

Nele is from Belgium, and my part-time mate, so to speak. I first met her in
Amsterdam in 2013, then Brussels, then Berlin and Leipzig. This time in Sofia. I
totally like hanging around with her, our conversations and doing all kinds of
things together.

Eventually she arrived, we got our room, and everything was set for an awesome
week in Sofia.

We did go out to have dinner at
[Divaka](http://www.tripadvisor.com/Restaurant_Review-g294452-d806676-Reviews-Divaka-Sofia_Sofia_Region.html)
which I just can recommend. For 10€ you'll be stuffed. For 5€ more maybe even a
bit drunk.

In the evening we played pool with American and Swedish guys. Again, in Hostel
Mostel's lounge. Great place to easily meet people from all over. Pool, chill
zone, TV, couches, tables and a kitchen.

![](/travel-pictures/Bulgaria/Sofia/100_1076.JPG)

On the second day we went out for some sightseeing. As I were in Sofia before, I
saw most of the things. Only difference was the weather, about 40°C more. That's
why we also chilled around in the park for quite a bit.

In the evening we went out with the pub crawl. Also one activity I extensively
did when I were here last time in February. Met quite a few people while going
to three bars.

One of them was [Barfly](https://www.facebook.com/barflysofia). I befriended
with the owner last time, and he recognized me immediatly this time. If you ever
be around, make sure you order a 'White Stork', which is like the best bulgarian
beer. Have a shot of rakia with it. Heavy yammy stuff.

On saturday we saved our energy during the day for a night at the [Egula festival](https://www.facebook.com/events/1453587244876286),
located 35km
outside of Sofia. I've never been to a rave in the woods, plus there was Drum
and Bass. So all things set for another awesome night.

![](/travel-pictures/Bulgaria/Sofia/100_1107.JPG)

Buses to Plana, tha village near the festival, were only running five times a
day. We planned to take the last one. Going by metro to the bus station was no
problem, but we couldn't find the actual bus stop. We missed it. Shoot.

But there are two things that exist en masse in Sofia: Banks and Taxis. So we
took the latter. Quite a nice drive to Plana with beautiful scenery. We payed
only 20 Leva, which is about 10 Euro. For a 30km distance!

Music was playing since the festival was already going on for 24 hours. The sun
was still out, people were chilling around, eating, chatting and playing frisbee
and football. It was a very nice atmosphere which could only mean good things
for the night.

And I had an awesome night! Basically I was switching between the two stages,
dancing my ass of, and occasionally stopped by the fire or the bar to chat up
some people. Again, in my opinion the Bulgarian people are so sweet. But I also
met Russians, Slovaks and even a German couple.

The dude of the couple happened to be a programmer too. Talking about RoR, Node
& Co while in the woods in Bulgaria?! Yep, didn't expected that.

![](/travel-pictures/Bulgaria/Sofia/100_1111.JPG)

As the party slowed down we sat by the fire to wait for the sun to rise. Again,
very light hearted and friendly conversations.

At 10AM we took the bus back to Sofia. At like 11AM we were back in our room,
dead. The Sunday only consisted of having dinner, and falling asleep.

Monday was [my birthday](/posts/yet-another-special-day). Nothing
crazy happened, went out for dinner and hang around at the hostel lounge.

On Tuesday my stomach felt quite funny. I believe it was a light food poisoning.
So I spent most of the day in bed while Nele did her thing.

Nele had to leave really early on Wednesday. I checked out of the hostel and
spent quite some time in the lounge to do some work and procrastination. Also I
planned my trip to Bucharest.

The overnight bus from Budapest to Sofia was 40€. A private room in Hostel
Mostel for a week was 96€. Other expenses like cab rides, eating, drinking and
going out were about 220€.

**Costs: 356€**
