---
title: Mentoring at Nodeschool Workshop in Munich
slug: mentoring-at-nodeschool-workshop-munich
date: 2017-01-23
---

I am currently hanging out in Munich. A couple of weeks ago I've attended the
[Munich Node.js User Group](http://www.mnug.de/) for the first time. It was a
pretty good meetup and event over at
[Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/mtc/locations/munich.aspx). They
also sponsored the event, so kudos to them for the pizza and the couple of beers
I had!

<div class="columns">
  <div class="column is-3">
    <img src="/images/nodeschoolmuc.png" alt="Nodeschool Munich">
  </div>
  <div class="column">
    <p>
After the three talks of the evening [Michael Jaser](https://twitter.com/mmeaku)
told the crowd that he is organizing the first
[Nodeschool](https://nodeschool.io/munich/) workshop here in Munich, and that
they are still looking for some mentors helping out overlooking the event and
answering questions the attendees might have.
    </p>
    <p>
I've never thought of doing something like this, but I decided then and there
that it would be a pretty interesting and rewarding experience. So I talked to
Michael, and I was in.
    </p>
  </div>
</div>

Last Saturday the workshop took place at the
[TNG](https://www.tngtech.com/en.html) offices in Unterf√∂hring, near Munich.

From my place I had to take the underground as well as the bus to get there. It
took me 50 minutes, but that was quite welcome. I've been out the day before,
enjoying some Drum & Bass at the [Corleone Bar](http://www.corleone.cc/). It
wasn't too crazy, knowing that I would be a first-time-mentor the next day.
Still I've came home pretty late. After waking up I didn't exactly feel like to
answer any coding questions, but the U-Bahn and bus ride, some relaxing music
and water did fix that.

After arriving at the venue I greeted Michael and the other mentors, had a
little chat, some coffee and pastries. The workshop could begin.

Michael introduced the mentors to the crowd, and described to the 20 people how
to get started with Node.js and the
[Learn you Node](https://github.com/workshopper/learnyounode) workshopper.

With this workshopper the peeps would code on their own, and if they are stuck
or have any questions they could get help from a mentor.

To be honest, I haven't really prepared for this event, ie. I haven't done the
workshopper myself. But that was practically quite okay since everybody was just
starting out with installing Node.js or getting the first rather simple chapters
done. Meanwhile I busted out some chapters myself to get the hang of it - what's
required and how the solutions could look like.

The first two hours or so I hadn't really too much to do, so I had a cycle of
getting chapters of the workshop done one by one, walking around checking out
what the people were doing, gave some help and hints here and there, talked to
the other mentors and did some doodeling on the whiteboard.

But pretty soon the questions rolled in when people tried to solve the first
chapter that had to do with asynchrony - everybodies favorite feature of JS. It
became obvious that this is really the first big hurdle in learning the
language, no matter if front- or back-end.

I was quite happy that I could actually describe what was going on and what the
common mistakes were when working with async - and therefor help the people to
(hopefully) understand the concept better. I remember when I was learning this
stuff first, and when it didn't even remotely made sense. Fun times. Anyway, I
also realized that with ES2015's new `let` and `const` some of the mistakes the
students made will vanish. And further down the road it would be even simpler
with `async`/`await`.

Time went by pretty quickly because I really enjoyed helping and giving hints.
It was really awesome to see all the different solutions everybody was coming up
with - some of I would've never thought of. But that is also the beauty of
JavaScript - you can achieve the same result in countless different ways.

![Nodeschool Munich #1](/images/nodeschoolworkshop1.jpg)

<small style="display:block;text-align:right;">
  Photo shamelessly ripped from the
  <a href="https://twitter.com/nodeschoolmuc">@nodeschoolmuc</a> Twitter
  account.
</small>

One thing I learned for myself along the way was to go and ask people if they
need help. In the first third of the workshop, which was about 5 hours in total,
I was kinda reserved. I've looked at some pretty focused peeps and I didn't want
to interrupt them, because that's how I like it - if I am figuring something
out, dare you interrupting me. And that's maybe the case with some people who
were at the workshop. But for the majority, even when initially focused,
starring at the screen without reading anything probably means they are stuck.
Even more if they might be reserved themself asking for help. Bottom line is
that you will not find out if somebody needs help or wants to figure it out by
him-/her-self if you don't take the intiative asking if they need anything.

Overall I am very happy that I attended the workshop, and if I am happen to be
around for the next one I will definitely be back. Some people gave me/us
positive feedback right at the venue, others in comments at the
[Meetup page](https://www.meetup.com/de-DE/Nodeschool-Munich/events/236819959/),
which makes me even more grateful and looking forward to the next Nodeschool.
