---
title: New Dawn, New Domain - Recovering from a depressive episode
slug: new-dawn-new-domain
date: 2017-07-26
---

A little bit over a year ago I have been at this exact point. I registered the
domain [akrasia.me](https://akrasia.me), developed a new custom blog, even wrote
some articles and a CV. I did that for two reasons: 1) To have a nice looking
page, because I was applying for a new job, and 2) I came out of a depressive
episode and was piecing my life back together. Or so I thought.

I had some minor "episodes" in my adult life, but last year around that time I
was crushed. My happiness, motivation and creativity was at a low. But still I
would not admit that I was depressed. It was just one of these "episodes". I
could get myself back together. I always had that thought: even though I was
down, I always instinctively knew that it can and will get better.

Before that last depressive episode I partied quite a lot and I was taking drugs
on a regular basis, all while traveling through Europe. Great times, until a
certain point. My mind and body was rebelling, "you have to stop" it said. I
didn't listen right away, but eventually I was ready to make some changes in my
life.

So I stopped, for real. For 117 days straight I said no to every drug that came
my way, also alcohol and tabacco. My mood stabilised and I was quite productive
in that time. It was boring though as I didn't really go out as I wanted to
avoid temptation.

That break also gave me the incentive to do some more changes in my life. I
picked up meditation, writing a diary and walking a lot. I got the new job and
moved to Munich. Life was on the bright side again.

But that plan had a flaw from the beginning. I wasn't gonna quit drugs, I only
was taking a break for 90 days. It lasted 27 days longer because I wanted to
roll on a really good party.

Back then I couldn't see that I was putting myself on track to depression again.
I thought with my new habits everything gonna be alright. That "I finally had
it". A couple months into regular use again (as well as trying out new drugs) I
had that feeling again, like something is hovering over me. A kind of anxiety
that I couldn't pinpoint.

I fucked up multiple jobs as well as a relationship with a girl I really liked.
No need to say that this contributed to the downward spiral. To distract myself
I was partying hard again. I stopped the habits that I had done daily for over
half a year. Seems like I didn't "had it" at all.

It has been three months since I had the exact same epiphany that I couldn't go
on with abusing drugs like this. But this time it was paired with the very
realisation that I put myself deliberately in that position, for whatever
reason.

Equipped with that knowledge and being true to myself that I have depression, I
am at the beginning again. Or am I? It sure feels like it most of the time, but
when I think deeper about it, it's not true. These realisations don't come
without the stress beforehand. I don't start over, I just pick up where I left
and try it differently, again and again.

The last months I took it easy with partying and drugs, but didn't completely
stop like I was doing last year. And that is what I am aiming for to implement:
moderation. I always felt like I am an impulsive person and that I have to do
it, or leave it entirely. But I don't want either way. I want to learn to be in
control.

And if that does not work, that's okay, too. Now I know, even more, that things
can and will go sideways again, as well as it is definitely getting better. I
need to elevate my lowest lows and make sure that I get out of there as quickly
as possible. And kids, let me tell you, it is not by taking drugs regularly.

[Akrasia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akrasia) means "lack of self-control or
the state of acting against one's better judgment". I thought it was very
descriptive of me when I registered the domain. I was putting of the work that
had to be done to live a fulfilled life and instead I traded it for quick fixes
like partying, drug consumption and constant traveling.

[Enkrateia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enkrateia) means "power over yourself,
power over your own passions and instincts, self-control". And that is what I
strive for. I want to be in control over every aspect of my life.

In this blog, or rather
[web application](https://github.com/mustardamus/enkrateia.me), I'd like to
share what I am up to, truly. Things I do, like
[habits](https://enkrateia.me/habits) and techniques I try out to gain more and
more self-control, as well as developing tools to help me keep on track.
